Question Paper: BigData1

PART A

Q1(a) Explain role of DATAMART.
(b) What do you understand by data model? How data model is built.
(c) What is the major purpose of using a NOSQL database
(d) What do you understand by MapReduce. Explain in detail.
(e) Explain all goals of HDFS.
(f) Define following terms:
i. Resource Manager
ii. HBase
iii. Key/Value Store

(g) How a secondary namenode differs from namenode in HDFS.
(h) How Hadoop runs a MapReduce job using YARN?
(i) Explain data serialization in Hadoop
(j) Explain Hive file formats

PART B

Q2 Write and explain collection related commands, mongoDB commands for rows, mongoDB commands for inserting more than one row.

Q3 Explain Big Data Management and Processing using Datameer with example.

Q4 Explain the concept of big data and its significance in today's digital world.

Q5 Diagrammatically explain following terms.
a) Map Phase
b) Shuffle and sort phase
c) Reducer phase

Q6 Explain the hadoop distributed file system architecture with a neat sketch

Q7 Explain developing and testing MapReduce jobs with MRUnit.

Q8 Explain about the implementation of map reduce concept with a small example.

Q9 a. Write down steps to set environmental variables in hadoop.
b. How to verify hadoop installation

Q10 Write down steps of installing a Hadoop.

Q11 Data modeling examples will clarify how data models and the process of data modeling highlights essential data and the way to arrange it. Explain below points
a. ER Model
b. Hierarchical Model
c. Network Model

-- End of Question Paper --


Question Paper: BigData2

PART A

Q1(a) What do you understand by big data? Explain difference between structure and unstructured data.

(b) Write down difference between datawarehouse and datamart.

(c) What do you understand by relational database management system?

(d) How Hadoop improves traditional databases.

(e) Write down advantages of MapReduce.

(f) Which commands are use to insert and retrieve a data into HDFS.

(g) Explain unit testing techniques.

(h) What are the functions of HIVEQL.

(i) Write down challenges of supervised learning

(j) Splunk is available in three different product categories. Explain those.

PART B

Q2 Describe the 4V model of Big Data.

Q3 What are Hive and Pig? How are they different?

Q4 How does Hadoop differ from a traditional file system?

Q5 Explain failures in MapReduce.

Q6 How to configure a Hadoop on master server.

Q7 What do you understand by data streaming? Explain a few use cases across multiple industries.

Q8 Write down steps for uploading data in Splunk.

Q9 What is HIVE? Explain working of HIVE.

Q10 Explain types of regressions

Q11 Explain difference between RDBMS and NOSQL.

-- End of Question Paper --


Question Paper: DECAP456 (1)

PART A

Q1(a) Write down characteristics of BIG DATA.

(b) A data lake is a centralized repository that allows you to store all your structured and unstructured data at any scale. Why do we need a data lake?

(c) Why NOSQL database emerge?

(d) How Hadoop improves traditional databases.

(e) Write down advantages of MapReduce.

(f) Define following terms:
a. Resource Manager
b. HBase
c. Key/Value Store

(g) Explain three core classes of MRunits.

(h) Write down the features of HIVE.

(i) Write down challenges of supervised learning

(j) Define following terms
a. Data indexing
b. Data Searching
c. Dashboards.

PART B

Q2 What are the three major types of Big Data applications? Describe two applications of each type.

Q3 Explain top Hadoop related open-source tools.

Q4 Diagrammatically explain Hadoop components.

Q5 What is data preparation and feature engineering in Datameer.

Q6 What do you understand by data streaming? Explain a few use cases across multiple industries.

Q7 Explain types of regressions.

Q8 Explain architecture of PIG.

Q9 How to configure a Hadoop on master server.

Q10 Explain failures in MapReduce.

Q11 Explain difference between RDBMS and NOSQL.

-- End of Question Paper --


Question Paper: DECAP456P_2

Q1. The V's of Big Data.

Q2. Data ware house vs data format?

Q3. What do you understand by NOSQL?

Q4. Explain components of Hadoop?

Q5. The MapReduce task is mainly divided into 2 phases i.e. Map phase and Reduce phase. Explain all?

Q6. What do you understand by linear regression?

Q7. How supervised learning is different from unsupervised learning?.

Q8. Where to use HDFS?

Q9. List few benefits of using SPLUNK?.

Q10.How Pig is different from Hive.?

-- End of Question Paper --


Question Paper: DECAP456P_3

PART-B

Q1 Describe the big data processing architecture.

Q2 How file system is different from DFS? Explain features of DFS.

Q3 Write and explain a few supplementary components that are extensively used in the Hadoop ecosystem.

Q4 Explain developing and testing Map Reduce jobs with MR Unit.

Q5 What is HIVE? Explain working of HIVE.

Q6 What do you understand by NOSQL. Explain types of NOSQL databases.

Q7 Explain HDFS operations to tread and write the data.

Q8 Explain applications of predictive analytics.

Q9 Explain different types of data mart.

Q10 Write down steps for uploading data in splunk.

Q11 Describe the 4V model of big data.

Q12 What are Hive and Pig? How are they different?

Q13 How does Hadoop differ from a traditional file system?

Q14 Explain failures in MapReduce.

Q15 How to configure a Hadoop on master server.

Q16 What do you understand by data streaming? Explain a few use cases across multiple industries

Q17 Explain types of regressions.

Q18 Explain difference between RDBMS and NOSQL.

-- End of Question Paper --

Question Paper: DECAP456P_4

PART-B

Q1 What do you understand by data streaming? Explain a few use cases across multiple industries.

Q2 what is a NoSQL database? What are the different types of it?

Q3 Explain differences between HDFS and local system.

Q4 Define Command line interface using HDFS files and give a brief note on Hadoop-specific file system types and HDFS commands.

Q5 What is machine learning. Write down classification of machine learning.

Q6 Explain architecture of PIG.

Q7 How file system is different from DFS? Explain features of DFS.

Q8 With Neat sketch explain in detail Hadoop architecture and its component?

Q9 Explain working of HDFS.

Q10 Write down steps for uploading data in Splunk.

-- End of Question Paper --


Question Paper: DECAP456P_5

PART-B

Q.2 Master and salve nodes from the HDFS cluster. Explain both with the help of examples.

Q.3 a. Write down command to get count of the document in mongodb.

b. Explain difference between find and find One () in mongodb.

C. Explain use of upsert option in update command in mongodb.

Q.4 What is HIVE? Explain working of HIVE.

Q.5 How file system is different from DFS? Explain features of DFS.

Q.6 Explain developing and testing MapReduce jobs with MR Unit.

Q.7 What is data preparation and feature engineering in Datameer.

Q.8 How to develop an analytic team and what is the skill required for data analyst.

Q.9 What do you understand by data streaming? Explain a few use cases across multiple industries.

Q.10 Define command line interface using HDFS files and give a brief note on Hadoop-specific file system types and HDFS commands.

Q.11 Explain with neat sketch about the configuration of CLI client and WI client while interacting with HIVE.

Q.12 What are the three major types of Big Data applications? Describe two applications of each type.

Q.13 What do you understand by data streaming? Explain a few use cases across multiple industries.

Q.14 What do you understand by data ingestion. Where is the data stored.

Q.15 How does HDFS ensure security and integrity of data?

Q.16 What do you understand by HBASE? Explain all features of HBASE.

Q.17 Explain difference between HDFS and local system.

Q.18 Explain failures in Map Reduce.

Q.19 a. Write down steps to set environmental variables in hadoop.

b. How to verify Hadoop installation.

Q.20 What are the steps required to create a dashboard that visualizes linear regression data correctly.

Q.21 What is machine learning. Write down classification of machine learning.

-- End of Question Paper --

Question Paper: DECAP456P_6

Part A

Q1. What do you understand by big data? Explain structured vs. unstructured data.

Q2. What do you understand by data model? How is a data model built?

Q3. Write commands:
o Switch to a new database
o View and delete a database

Q4. Commands to:
o Change permission on a new directory in Hadoop
o Delete a document with duplicates

Q5. Difference between distributed and parallel systems

Q6. HDFS operations: Read/write file, shut down command

Q7. What do you understand by MRUNIT?

Q8. Features of HIVE

Q9. List Hadoop distributions

Q10. Create a table using HIVEQL

Part B

Q1. Difference between File System and DFS; Features of DFS

Q2. Steps to install Splunk Enterprise on Linux

Q3. Hadoop configuration files and their relation to Big Data

Q4. Describe Big Data processing architecture

Q5. Top challenges facing Big Data

Q6. Difference between MongoDB and MySQL

Q7. Explain Hadoop file commands (touchz, copyFromLocal, moveFromLocal, rmr, difference between copy and move`)

Q8. Explain Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) architecture with a sketch

Q10. Explain operational modes of Hadoop cluster configuration

Q11. Data modelling examples and explanation of:
o ER Model
o Hierarchical Model
o Network Model

-- End of Question Paper --


Question Paper: DECAP456P_7

PART A

Q1(a) Write down applications of BIG DATA.

(b) A data lake is a centralized repository that allows you to store all your structured and unstructured data at any scale. Why do we need a data lake?

(c) What do you understand by relational database management system

(d) Write down commands for the following questions

i. List all files and folders present in Hadoop.

ii. Write down a command to change permission on a new dir in Hadoop.

iii. Write down a command to delete one document when we have several duplicates.

(e) Distinguish between correlation and regression

(f) i. Explain HDFS operation to read the file and to write in the file.

ii. Write down the command to shut down the HDFS files.

(g) Explain unit testing techniques

(h) Write down applications of APACHE PIG.

(i) What do you understand by regression and also explain when to use regression.

(j) Explain Hive file formats

PART B

Q2 Master and slave nodes form the HDFS cluster. Explain both with the help of examples.

Q3 Hadoop is a machine with a good configuration of memory and CPU. Explain master/slave architecture of Hadoop.

Q4 Describe the four V model of Big data.

Q5 What do you understand by fair scheduler. Write advantages and disadvantages of fair scheduler.

Q6 Explain the hadoop distributed file system architecture with a neat sketch

Q7 Explain difference between RDBMS and NOSQL.

Q8 Write down steps for uploading data in Splunk.

Q9 Write down steps of installing a Hadoop

Q10 Explain applications of predictive analytics

Q11 Explain different types of data mart.

-- End of Question Paper --